<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="dircommand_0">
    <title>dir</title>
    <refbody>
        <example>
            <p>Displays a list of a directory's files and subdirectories. If used without
                parameters, this command displays the disk's volume label and serial number,
                followed by a list of directories and files on the disk (including their names and
                the date and time each was last modified). For files, this command displays the name
                extension and the size in bytes. This command also displays the total number of
                files and directories listed, their cumulative size, and the free space (in bytes)
                remaining on the disk.</p>
            <p>The dir command can also run from the Windows Recovery Console, using different
                parameters. For more information, see <xref
                    keyref="WindowsRecoveryEnvironment(WinRE)"/>.</p>
        </example>
        <section id="section_o1t_2gr_s1c">
            <title>Syntax</title>
            <codeblock id="codeblock_i5f_thr_s1c">dir [&lt;drive>:][&lt;path>][&lt;filename>] [...] [/p] [/q] [/w] [/d] [/a[[:]&lt;attributes>]]</codeblock>
            <codeblock id="codeblock_j5f_thr_s1c">[/o[[:]&lt;sortorder>]] [/t[[:]&lt;timefield>]] [/s] [/b] [/l] [/n] [/x] [/c] [/4] [/r]
</codeblock>
        </section>
        <section id="section_rkf_4hr_s1c"><title>Parameters </title><parmname>dir
                parameters</parmname><table frame="all" id="table_mpn_xhr_s1c">
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="3.64*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Parameter</entry>
                            <entry>Description</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>[&lt;drive>:][&lt;path>]</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Specifies the drive and directory for which you want to see a
                                listing. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>[&lt;filename>] </codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Specifies a particular file or group of files for which you want
                                to see a listing. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/p </entry>
                            <entry>Displays one screen of the listing at a time. To see the next
                                screen, press any key. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/q </entry>
                            <entry>Displays file ownership information. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/w</entry>
                            <entry>Displays the listing in wide format, with as many as five file
                                names or directory names on each line. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/d </entry>
                            <entry>Displays the listing in the same format as /w, but the files are
                                sorted by column. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>/a[[:]&lt;attributes>]</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Displays only the names of those directories and files with your
                                specified attributes. If you don't use this parameter, the command
                                displays the names of all files except hidden and system files. If
                                you use this parameter without specifying any <i>attributes</i>, the
                                command displays the names of all files, including hidden and system
                                files. The list of possible <i>attributes</i> values are:<ul
                                    id="ul_ujp_ykg_t1c">
                                    <li><b>d</b> - Directories</li>
                                    <li><b>h</b> - Hidden files</li>
                                    <li>
                                        <b>s</b> - System files</li>
                                    <li>
                                        <b>l</b> - Reparse points</li>
                                    <li>
                                        <b>r</b> - Read-only files</li>
                                    <li><b>a</b> - Files ready for archiving</li>
                                    <li><b>i</b> - Not content indexed files</li>
                                </ul> You can use any combination of these values, but don't
                                separate your values using spaces. Optionally you can use a colon
                                (:) separator, or you can use a hyphen (-) as a prefix to mean,
                                "not". For example, using the -s attribute won't show the system
                                files.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>/o[[:]&lt;sortorder>]</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>Sorts the output according to sortorder, which can be any
                                combination of the following values: <ul id="ul_c3s_glg_t1c">
                                    <li><b>n</b> - Alphabetically by name</li>
                                    <li>
                                        <b>e</b> - Alphabetically by extension</li>
                                    <li>
                                        <b>g</b> - Group directories first</li>
                                    <li><b>s</b> - By size, smallest first</li>
                                    <li><b>d</b> - By date/time, oldest first</li>
                                </ul>Use the - prefix to reverse the sort order Multiple values are
                                processed in the order in which you list them. Don't separate
                                multiple values with spaces, but you can optionally use a colon (:).
                                If sortorder isn't specified, <b>dir /o </b>lists the directories
                                alphabetically, followed by the files, which are also sorted
                                alphabetically.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>/t[[:]&lt;timefield>]</codeph>
                            </entry>
                            <entry>Specifies which time field to display or to use for sorting. The
                                available <i>timefield</i> values are:<ul id="ul_w5f_mlg_t1c">
                                    <li>
                                        <b>c</b> - Creation</li>
                                    <li><b>a</b> - Last accessed</li>
                                    <li><b>w </b>- Last written</li>
                                </ul>
                            </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/s </entry>
                            <entry>Lists every occurrence of the specified file name within the
                                specified directory and all subdirectories. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/b</entry>
                            <entry>Displays a bare list of directories and files, with no additional
                                information. The <b>/b</b> parameter overrides<b> /w</b>. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/l</entry>
                            <entry>Displays unsorted directory names and file names, using
                                lowercase. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/n</entry>
                            <entry>Displays a long list format with file names on the far right of
                                the screen. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/x </entry>
                            <entry>Displays the short names generated for non-8dot3 file names. The
                                display is the same as the display for<b> /n</b>, but the short name
                                is inserted before the long name. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/c</entry>
                            <entry>Displays the thousand separator in file sizes. This is the
                                default behavior. Use <b>/-c</b> to hide separators. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/4</entry>
                            <entry>Displays years in four-digit format. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/r</entry>
                            <entry>Display alternate data streams of the file. </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>/? </entry>
                            <entry>Displays help at the command prompt. </entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table></section>
        <section id="section_gj5_c3r_s1c">
            <title>Remarks</title>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_lq3_h3r_s1c">
                    <li>To use multiple filename parameters, separate each file name with a space,
                        comma, or semicolon. </li>
                    <li> You can use wildcard characters (* or ?), to represent one or more
                        characters of a file name and to display a subset of files or
                        subdirectories. </li>
                    <li>You can use the wildcard character, *, to substitute for any string of
                        characters, for example: <ul id="ul_ekl_r3r_s1c">
                            <li><codeph>dir *.txt </codeph>lists all files in the current directory
                                with extensions that begin with .txt, such as .txt, .txt1,
                                .txt_old.</li>
                            <li><codeph>dir read *.txt</codeph> lists all files in the current
                                directory that begin with read and with extensions that begin with
                                .txt, such as .txt, .txt1, or .txt_old.</li>
                            <li><codeph>dir read *.*</codeph> lists all files in the current
                                directory that begin with read with any extension.<p>The asterisk
                                    wildcard always uses short file name mapping, so you might get
                                    unexpected results. For example, the following directory
                                    contains two files (t.txt2 and t97.txt):
                                </p><codeblock id="codeblock_n5d_gjr_s1c">C:\test>dir /x
Volume in drive C has no label.
Volume Serial Number is B86A-EF32

Directory of C:\test

11/30/2004  01:40 PM &lt;DIR>  .
11/30/2004  01:40 PM &lt;DIR> ..
11/30/2004  11:05 AM 0 T97B4~1.TXT t.txt2
11/30/2004  01:16 PM 0 t97.txt</codeblock></li>
                        </ul><p>You might expect that typing<codeph> dir t97\*</codeph> would return
                            the file t97.txt. However, typing <codeph>dir t97\*</codeph> returns
                            both files, because the asterisk wildcard matches the file t.txt2 to
                            t97.txt by using its short name map<i> T97B4~1.TXT</i>. Similarly,
                            typing <codeph>del t97\* </codeph>would delete both files.</p></li>
                </ul>
                <ul id="ul_wjz_ljr_s1c">
                    <li>You can use the question mark (?) as a substitute for a single character in
                        a name. For example, typing <codeph>dir read???.txt</codeph> lists any files
                        in the current directory with the .txt extension that begin with read and
                        are followed by up to three characters. This includes Read.txt, Read1.txt,
                        Read12.txt, Read123.txt, and Readme1.txt, but not Readme12.txt.</li>
                    <li>If you use <b>/a </b>with more than one value in <i>attributes</i>, this
                        command displays the names of only those files with all the specified
                        attributes. For example, if you use<b> /a </b>with <b>r</b> and <b>-h</b> as
                            <i>attributes</i> (by using either <codeph>/a:r-h</codeph> or
                            <codeph>/ar-h</codeph>), this command will only display the names of the
                        read-only files that aren't hidden.</li>
                    <li>If you specify more than one <i>sortorder</i> value, this command sorts the
                        file names by the first criterion, then by the second criterion, and so on.
                        For example, if you use <b>/o </b>with the <b>e</b> and <b>-s</b> parameters
                        for <i>sortorder</i> (by using either <codeph>/o:e-s</codeph> or
                            /<codeph>oe-s</codeph>), this command sorts the names of directories and
                        files by extension, with the largest first, and then displays the final
                        result. The alphabetic sorting by extension causes file names with no
                        extensions to appear first, then directory names, and then file names with
                        extensions.</li>
                    <li>If you use the redirection symbol <codeph>(>)</codeph> to send this
                        command's output to a file, or if you use a pipe<codeph> (|)</codeph> to
                        send this command's output to another command, you must use<codeph>
                            /a:-d</codeph> and <b>/b</b> to only list the file names. You can use
                            <i>filename</i> with <b>/b </b>and <b>/s</b> to specify that this
                        command is to search the current directory and its subdirectories for all
                        file names that match <i>filename</i>. This command lists only the drive
                        letter, directory name, file name, and file name extension (one path per
                        line), for each file name it finds. Before you use a pipe to send this
                        command's output to another command, you should set the <i>TEMP</i>
                        environment variable in your Autoexec.nt file.</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_nkc_23r_s1c">
            <title>Examples</title>
            <p>To display all directories one after the other, in alphabetical order, in wide
                format, and pausing after each screen, make sure that the root directory is the
                current directory, and then type: </p>
            <codeblock>dir /s/w/o/p
</codeblock>
            <p>The output lists the root directory, the subdirectories, and the files in the root
                directory, including extensions. This command also lists the subdirectory names and
                the file names in each subdirectory in the tree. </p>
            <p>To alter the preceding example so that <b>dir</b> displays the file names and
                extensions, but omits the directory names, type: </p>
            <codeblock>dir /s/w/o/p/a:-d
</codeblock>
            <p>To print a directory listing, type: </p>
            <codeblock>dir > prn
</codeblock>
            <p>When you specify <b>prn</b>, the directory list is sent to the printer that is
                attached to the LPT1 port. If your printer is attached to a different port, you must
                replace <b>prn</b> with the name of the correct port. </p>
            <p>You can also redirect output of the <b>dir</b> command to a file by replacing
                    <b>prn</b> with a file name. You can also type a path. For example, to direct
                    <b>dir</b> output to the file dir.doc in the Records directory, type: </p>
            <codeblock>dir > \records\dir.doc
</codeblock>
            <p>If dir.doc does not exist, <b>dir</b> creates it, unless the <b>Records</b> directory
                does not exist. In that case, the following message appears: </p>
            <codeblock>File creation error
</codeblock>
            <p>To display a list of all the file names with the .txt extension in all directories on
                drive C, type: </p>
            <codeblock>dir c:\*.txt /w/o/s/p
</codeblock>
            <p>where </p>
            <parml id="parml_jb5_cw4_w1c">
                <plentry>
                    <pt>C: \*.txt </pt>
                    <pd>Files names with .txt extension in all directories on drive C.</pd>
                </plentry>
                <plentry>
                    <pt>/w</pt>
                    <pd>Wide format</pd>
                </plentry>
                <plentry>
                    <pt>/p</pt>
                    <pd>Pause each time the screen fulls until you press any key to continue</pd>
                </plentry>
            </parml>
        </section>
        <section id="section_qw2_f3r_s1c">
            <title>Related Links </title>
            <p/>
        </section>
    </refbody>
</reference>
