<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="sample_for_chunking">
    <title>sample for chunking </title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>ll supported versions of Windows and Windows Server have a set of Win32 console commands
            built in. This set of documentation describes the Windows Commands you can use to
            automate tasks by using scripts or scripting tools. Command-line shells Windows has two
            command-line shells: the Command shell and PowerShell. </p>
        <p>Each shell is a software program that provides direct communication between you and the
            operating system or application, providing an environment to automate IT operations. The
            Command shell was the first shell built into Windows to automate routine tasks, like
            user account management or nightly backups, with batch (.bat) files. </p>
        <p>With Windows Script Host, you could run more sophisticated scripts in the Command shell.
            For more information, see cscript or wscript. You can perform operations more
            efficiently by using scripts than you can by using the user interface. Scripts accept
            all commands that are available at the command line. </p>
        <p>PowerShell was designed to extend the capabilities of the Command shell to run PowerShell
            commands called cmdlets. Cmdlets are similar to Windows Commands but provide a more
            extensible scripting language. You can run both Windows Commands and PowerShell cmdlets
            in PowerShell, but the Command shell can only run Windows Commands and not PowerShell
            cmdlets. For the most robust, up-to-date Windows automation, we recommend using
            PowerShell instead of Windows Commands or Windows Script Host for Windows automation. </p>
        <p>A reference of exit and error codes for Windows Commands can be found in the Debug system
            error codes articles that may be helpful to understanding errors produced. Windows
            Commands also include command redirection operators. To learn more of their use, see
            Using command redirection operators. Note</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
